https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YcJ9IeukJL8

IAC-Infrastructure as code

In traditional IT and challenges

Buiseness-Buiseness analyste-solution arch-teams like n/w-

this process will take 

Challenges or issue-

1.slow deployment 
2.Expensive
3.Limited Automation
4.Human error
5.wasted Resource
6.Inconsistance

Infrastructure As code-IAC

IAC write and execture code to create provision or destroy the resoucres.

Types of IAC-

1.Configuration Management-Ansible,puppet,saltstack,shef
- They are idempotent 
2.Server Templating-docker,hashicorp packer,hashicorp vagrant
- vm image,docker image
- immutable 
- we need to update image and update
3.Provisioning Tools-terraform,clodformation
- provision Infrastructure,vm,db,vpc,subnets,sg,
- cloudformation used only on aws where as vendor agnostic

Terraform-

- Infrastructure provision Tools-
- free and opensource developed by hashicorp
- used to provision infrastructure across multiple platform aws,gcp,azure,vmware

Provider-

Providers helps tf to manage platform through api.enaled tf aws,gcp

Terraform uses HCL-Hashicorp Configuration Language-
main.tf -.tf configuration files-

code is declaratativate-meaning the code is defined is the state we want our infrastructure to be in.current state.

tf takes care of current and desired state-

There are three 
1.init-initialise project and identifies providers
2.plan-draft plans to reach target
3.apply-makes changes to reach desired state.fixing mixing


Resouce-db,compute instance execture
lifecycle of resoucres

terraform.tfstate
is blueprint


Installing terraform-

www.terraform.id



HCL Basics-

1.<block> <parameter>{
    key1= value1
    key2 = value2
}

resource "local_file" "pet" {
    filename = "/root/pets.txt"
    content = "happy learning"
}

resource -is block-name
local_file-resoucres Type,local provider file resource,local is provider
pet-resource name can be anything
{}-define argument,specific to type of resource we are creating


Simple terrafrom execution flow consist of four steps-
1.init
2.plan
3.apply


Example
1.terraform init
2.terraform plan -out=tfplan
3.terraform apply tfplan


1️⃣ terraform plan -out=tfplan

Creates an execution plan and saves it to a file (tfplan).
This ensures that the exact plan is applied later, preventing unintended changes.

terraform plan -out=tfplan
This generates a binary file (tfplan), which stores the Terraform execution plan.

2️⃣ terraform apply tfplan

Applies the saved plan (tfplan) instead of generating a new one.
Ensures that the changes being applied match what was previously reviewed.



📌 Why Use This Approach?
✅ Prevents unexpected changes (since the plan does not change between plan and apply).
✅ Ensures approval before execution, making it useful for review processes in teams.
✅ Essential for CI/CD pipelines, where you generate a plan, get approval, and then apply it later.
























